Empirical Methods
Quesiton 1: Yield curve model
Very challenging problem
First part is just using the Appendix A.1
VAR regression
Use quarterly data
The Sigma  equation (below) is just the covariance - variance method

If you want to see the results of my VAR regressions check out my github page on a laptop or desktop computer (https://github.com/mrefermat/FinancePhD/blob/master/Empirical%20Methods/Homework2/Homework2-part1.ipynb)
Second part - Joslin et all approach
Very complicated methodology that is hard to understand
However code is provided and easy to use
Question doesn’t require much in depth knowledge of the paper
Question 2:
Lots of questions around what is alpha is HF space
What goes into the regression
Fung and Hsish factors include negative ones
Data has duplicates and other currency classes
BSW method is straightforward to generate via appendix and paper
Results show nearly all either have zero alpha or positive
Ferson and Chen
Much more complicated to understand
Many more parameters to estimate or select

A few comments regarding part 1 of the first question:
 
1)      Sigma is NOT the covariance matrix Omega but rather a lower triangular matrix such that Sigma*Sigma’ = Omega (Covariance Matrix of the residuals).  Sigma = chol(Omega, ‘lower’) in Matlab. 

2)      It is important to make sure that the yield and GDP growth data are divided by 100 prior to estimation.  It has no impact for the first step but has very significant implications for the second step.  I don’t want to go into technical details of the eigenvalues (though would be happy to elaborate) but not scaling the variables appropriately would result in parameters An and Bn blowing up.  I am still wrestling with tackling the second step optimization because I can’t get it to converge but at least the values are not blowing up anymore.

Regarding part 2 of the first question:
 
It appears that the steps are the following.  First, PCA of the original subset of yields y gives N (2 in the code) eigenvectors P (“pricing factors”) with the largest eigenvalues.  W is such that Wy = P (see page 935).  Then equation (18) provides a separation of estimation parameters that is somewhat similar to the first paper with the first component governing the cross-sectional relation of yields on state variables (step 2) and the second component reflecting the time-series evolution of state variables (step 1).  It is interesting that the components are calculated based on parameters from different measures Q (risk-neutral) vs P (physical).  It looks as if all estimation is done in function sample_estimation.m.  Note that lambdas are the vector of eigenvalues of K1Q_X (see page 930).  
